Swiggg Sales 

-----1)Project Title
The purpose of creating a swiggy sales is to turn large volumes of order and revenue data into a clear, real-time view of business performance so teams can make faster and better decisions.

-----2) Purpose
A Swiggy sales project is not just about numbers—it’s about learning how to analyze a real business, generate insights, and support smarter decisions using data.

-----3) Tech Stack
The Project was built using the following tools and technologies:

Jupyter Notebook : Main programming platform used for report creation.
Pandas Library : Main Module which is used to import the data.
seaborn Library : Data Visualization tool used in python.
matplotlib Library :  Data Visualization tool used in python.
plotly Library :  Data Visualization tool used in python.

----4) Data Source
This Project is built using sample/synthetic Restaurant data modeled to represent and serve the purpose of delivery like operations.

----5) Features and Highlights
----5.1) Bussiness Problem
This swiggy sales project/report helps to solve several common business problems like 
👉 Analyse sales performance
👉 Detect customer behavior
👉 Predict operational efficiency
👉 Take data-driven decision

---- 5.2) Goal Of The Project
The goal of this project is to analyze business data and turn it into actionable insights that improve performance and decision-making.

---- 5.3) Walk Through The Key Visuals
Total Sales Kpi is used to measure overall business performance and revenue generation.

Average Rating KPI is used to measure customer satisfaction and service quality.

Average Order Value KPIis used to measure the average amount spent by a customer per order.

Rating Count KPI is used to measure how many customers are actually giving feedback in the form of ratings.

Total Orders KPI is used to measure the overall number of successful orders placed on the platform .

Monthly Sales Trend Line Chart is used to show how total sales change over each month over certain time.

Daily Sales Trend Bar Graph is used to show how sales change on each individual day within a selected time period.

Total Sales by Food Type pie chart is used to show how overall revenue is distributed across different food categories (like Veg and Non-veg dishes).

Revenue by State bar graph is used to compare how much revenue is generated from different states/regions.

Top 5 Cities by Sales bar graph is used to identify and compare the highest revenue-generating cities on the platform.

----- 5.4) Bussiness Impact And Insight

The Project highlights that revenue is showing a considerable decline till the second month of february , but after second month the is a noticable rise in the revenue.
Specially from the state of karnataka in the domain of veg foods.


